Misconception Check
 In the past several years the technology evolved too fast and there’s a lot of
updates in java versions that was developed and existing now. Select 2
versions of java and compare them
 in terms of features, advantages, and disadvantages.

Java SE 8 (March 18, 2014)
Its codename was Spider. Although, codenames have been discontinued, but the codename Spider is common among java developers.

It includes some features which were proposed for Java SE 7 but added in Java SE 8.
Language-level support for Lambda expressions.
Allowed developers to embed JavaScript code within applications.
Annotation of Java Types.Provided Date and Time API.
Repeating Annotations.
Launching of JavaFX applications.
Removal of permanent generation.Java SE 8 is not supported in Windows XP but after JDK 8 update 25, we can install and run it under Windows XP.
Java 8 is set as a default version to download from java.com from October 2014. 
 
Advantages
Java 8 will have a new feature called functional interfaces. Basically, default methods are added to an interface and do not have to be overridden in
 the interface implementation. These methods can be run directly from the interface. This was done for backward compatibility for your collections in
 your interfaces.

Disadvantages
Parallel Streams can actually slow you down. Java 8 brings the promise of parallelism as one of the most anticipated new features. 
The flip-side of Lambda expressions. Lambdas. ...
Default Methods are distracting. ...
    Wherefore art thou Jigsaw? ...
    Issues that are still around. ...
    Functional Programming – not quite there yet.


Java SE 9 (September 21, 2017)
In 2016, Oracle discussed some features to release in Java 9. It was hoped that Java 9 would include better support for multi-gigabyte heaps,
 better native code integration, a different default garbage collector and a self-tuning JVM. The release of Java 9 was postponed many times and 
finally it was released on September 21, 2017.

It includes some specific features:
 Modularization of the JDK under Project Jigsaw.
 Provided Money and Currency API.
 Tight integration with JavaFX.
 Java implementation of reactive streams.
 More Concurrency Updates.
 Provided Java Linker.
 Automatic scaling and sizing.

Advantages
The main change in Java 9 is that it is now a module system with a modular JDK, modular source code, and modular run time images. Internal APIs are hidden in a module. 
A module system creates more opportunities for the development of projects that can be dealing with distributed data processing. For instance, new Java 9 has been applied
for building lo T solutions and platforms where it necesssary to process various data concurrently. 

Disadvantages
After Java release, previous versions of Java no longer be supoorted, and clients can have to spend time and resources on migration. If a project is still in the development phase, it won't
be too difficult, but the migration can be a srious problem for the soutions. The problem of the interdependency of program products and libraries has not been solved yet,
making installing new products and uninstalling old ones can be difficult.
